Document polls. (#6746)
hammerandchisel/discord-api-docs: docs/resources/Poll.md

# Poll Resource

A poll is... well... a poll! It holds information about a poll!

> ![If you get it you get it](example-poll.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Example message containing a poll](example-poll.png)
```
Although accessibility may not be a top priority for developer documentation, a more helpful alt text would be nice.

### Poll Object

The poll object has a lot of levels and nested structures. It was also designed
to support future extensibility, so some fields may appear to be more complex than
necessary.

The request and response models are closely aligned. So for the sake of brevity
we will have common structure declarations instead of duplicating request and response structures.

> Fields marked by an \* are only sent as part of responses from Discord's API/Gateway.

Reviewer 2: I think this information would be better off (additionally) being put in an info/warn box next to the relevant objects.

###### Poll Object Structure

| Field             | Type                                                                                                | Description                                                     |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| question          | [Poll Media Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-media-object-poll-media-object-structure)             | The question of the poll. Only `text` is supported.             |
| answers           | List of [Poll Answer Objects](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-answer-object-poll-answer-object-structure) | Each of the answers available in the poll.                      |

> | expiry            | IS08601 timestamp                                                                                   | The time when the poll ends.                                    |

Reviewer 2: It seems like this isn't really validated yet:
- what happens when setting a timestamp in the past?
- is there a maximum duration until a poll's expiry?

Reviewer 3: I think they changed the `expiry` field to a `duration` field, which is just an integer that indicates how many hours the poll will stay up.

Author: I will correct this, thanks lol

Reviewer 4: Both the `expiry` field and the old `duration` field suffer from the same problem of using time based math instead of calendar math. When datetime calculations extend >1 day you want to use calendar based math so it meets human expectations when e.g. DST transitions happen. Right now since this is a flat hour calculation you end up with the poll expiring +/- 1 hour from what you originally intended during these transitions.

Note that events suffer from the same issue as well but I'd rather this gets fixed here before shipping.

Author: We talked about this internally, for polls, and decided that this is a wontfix. 

We understand the problem, but we believe that the impact is low enough that it's not worth either leaking the author's timezone, or building UI to pick some timezone for this.

We acknowledge that in our UI it says "3 days", but semantically it means 72 hours.

| allow_multiselect | boolean                                                                                             | Whether a user can select multiple answers                      |

> | layout_type       | integer                                                                                             | The [layout type](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/layout-type) of the poll |

Reviewer 2: Can this be optional (while there's only one layout type) maybe?

Author: I think this is probably a fine change to make, so I'll make it optional in the API later

Author: The documentation for this has changed, but the API deploy to set the default has not yet completed. I will resolve this comment after this has been deployed. For now `layout_type` is still required.

Reviewer 5: Bump, is it still planned to make this optional?

Reviewer 6: > Bump, is it still planned to make this optional?

it is already optional

Reviewer 5: It's not documented as so, unless I'm missing something

Reviewer 2: > It's not documented as so, unless I'm missing something

I mainly asked for this in light of creating polls which now use the poll create object, where it's still optional.

| results\*         | [Poll Results Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-results-object-poll-results-object-structure)       | The results of the poll                                         |

### Layout Type

We might have different layouts for polls in the future.
For now though, this number will be 1.

| Type    | ID | Description                    |
|---------|----|--------------------------------|
| DEFAULT | 1  | The, uhm, default layout type. |

### Poll Media Object

The poll media object is a common object that backs both the question and answers.
The intention is that it allows us to extensibly add new ways to display things in the future.
For now, `question` only supports `text`, while answers can have an optional `emoji`.

###### Poll Media Object Structure

| Field  | Type                                                | Description            |
|--------|-----------------------------------------------------|------------------------|

> | text?  | string                                              | The text of the field  |

Reviewer 2: Seems like this has a limit of 300 characters.

###### Poll Results Object Structure

| Field         | Type                                                                                                            | Description                                   |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| is_finalized  | boolean                                                                                                         | Whether the votes have been precisely counted |
| answer_counts | List of [Poll Answer Count Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-results-object-poll-answer-count-object-structure) | The counts for each answer                    |

###### Poll Answer Count Object Structure

| Field    | Type    | Description                                    |
|----------|---------|------------------------------------------------|
| id       | integer | The `answer_id`                                |
| count    | integer | The number of votes for this answer            |
| me_voted | boolean | Whether the current user voted for this answer |

# Poll Endpoints

> For creating a poll, see [Create Message](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/create-message). After creation, the poll message cannot be editted.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
For creating a poll, see [Create Message](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/create-message). After creation, the poll message cannot be edited.
```

Author: Spelling is also hard

Apps are not allowed to vote on polls. No rights! :)

## Get Answer Voters % GET /channels/{channel.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/channel-object}/polls/{message.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-object}/answers/{answer_id#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-answer-object}

Get a list of users that voted for this specific answer.

###### Query String Params

| Field  | Type      | Description                           | Default |
|--------|-----------|---------------------------------------|---------|
| after? | snowflake | Get users after this user ID          | absent  |
| limit? | integer   | Max number of users to return (1-100) | 25      |

###### Response Body

| Field | Type                                              | Description                      |
|-------|---------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|

> | users | array of [user](#DOCS_RESOURCES_USER/user-object) | Users who created to this answer |

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
| users | array of [user](#DOCS_RESOURCES_USER/user-object) | Users who voted for this answer |
```

### Poll Create Request Object

This is the request object used when creating a poll across the different endpoints.
It is similar but not exactly identical to the main [poll object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-object-poll-object-structure).
The main difference is that the request has `duration` which eventually becomes `expiry`.

###### Poll Create Request Object Structure

| Field             | Type                                                                                                | Description                                                                              |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| question          | [Poll Media Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-media-object-poll-media-object-structure)             | The question of the poll. Only `text` is supported.                                      |

> | answers           | List of [Poll Answer Objects](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-answer-object-poll-answer-object-structure) | Each of the answers available in the poll.                                               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| answers           | List of [Poll Answer Objects](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-answer-object-poll-answer-object-structure) | Each of the answers available in the poll, up to 10                                      |
```

For now, `question` only supports `text`, while answers can have an optional `emoji`.

###### Poll Media Object Structure

| Field  | Type                                                | Description            |
|--------|-----------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
| text?  | string                                              | The text of the field  |
| emoji? | partial [emoji](#DOCS_RESOURCES_EMOJI/emoji-object) | The emoji of the field |

`text` should always be non-null for both questions and answers, but please do not depend on that in the future.
The maximum length of `text` is 300 for the question, and 55 for any answer.

When creating a poll answer with an emoji, one only needs to send either the `id` (custom emoji) or `name` (default emoji) as the only field.

### Poll Answer Object

The `answer_id` is a number that labels each answer.
As an implementation detail, it currently starts at 1 for the first answer and goes up sequentially.
We recommend against depending on this sequence.

Currently, there is a maximum of 10 answers per poll.

###### Poll Answer Object Structure

> | Field       | Type                                                                                    | Description            |
> |-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
> | answer_id\* | integer                                                                                 | The ID of the answer   |
> | poll_media  | [Poll Media Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-media-object-poll-media-object-structure) | The data of the answer |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Field       | Type                                                                                    | Description            |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
| answer_id\* | integer                                                                                 | The ID of the answer   |
| poll_media  | [Poll Media Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-media-object-poll-media-object-structure) | The data of the answer |

\* Only sent as part of responses from Discord's API/Gateway.
```

# Poll Resource

A poll is... well... a poll! It holds information about a poll!

![Example message containing a poll](example-poll.png)

### Poll Object

The poll object has a lot of levels and nested structures. It was also designed
to support future extensibility, so some fields may appear to be more complex than
necessary.

###### Poll Object Structure

| Field             | Type                                                                                                | Description                                                     |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| question          | [Poll Media Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-media-object-poll-media-object-structure)             | The question of the poll. Only `text` is supported.             |
| answers           | List of [Poll Answer Objects](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-answer-object-poll-answer-object-structure) | Each of the answers available in the poll.                      |

> | expiry            | IS08601 timestamp                                                                                   | The time when the poll ends.                                    |

Reviewer 8: would be nice if expiry was nullable to support infinite polls - many servers already use reactions for infinite polls and users would like to be able to do that with native polls also. maybe this could be changed in the future but making a non-nullable field nullable would be a breaking change

Author: Done. I think regardless of us doing it this is a good change to hold onto the option.

| allow_multiselect | boolean                                                                                             | Whether a user can select multiple answers                      |
| layout_type       | integer                                                                                             | The [layout type](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/layout-type) of the poll |

> | results           | [Poll Results Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-results-object-poll-results-object-structure)       | The results of the poll                                         |

Reviewer 9: `results` seems to be nullable only for messages received over a gateway connection, I've yet to see it null over rest

Author: Our intention is that it should be always non-null (with just... default values for polls without votes yet). Are you still seeing it null through the Gateway? I'm going to check later just wondering if anyone knows right now. :P

Reviewer 10: ![image](https://github.com/discord/discord-api-docs/assets/61027276/4721765e-0c6b-49f8-b71b-a3981cc4fe6b)
I can still reproduce it

We recommend against depending on this sequence.

Currently, there is a maximum of 10 answers per poll.

###### Poll Answer Object Structure

| Field       | Type                                                                                    | Description            |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
| answer_id\* | integer                                                                                 | The ID of the answer   |
| poll_media  | [Poll Media Object](#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-media-object-poll-media-object-structure) | The data of the answer |

\* Only sent as part of responses from Discord's API/Gateway.

### Poll Results Object

In a nutshell, this contains the number of votes for each answer.

Due to the intricacies of counting at scale, while a poll is in progress the results may not be perfectly accurate.
They usually are accurate, and shouldn't deviate significantly -- it's just difficult to make guarantees.

To compensate for this, after a poll is finished there is a background job which performs a final, accurate tally of votes.

> This tally concludes once `is_finalized` is `true`.

Reviewer 11: Is the tally following the flag, or is the flag following the tally? 
Currently it reads as the former to me, even if it _probably_ isn't the case.

Author: The flag follows the tally. Honestly I find this sentence clear that it is the latter. 🤔

| me_voted | boolean | Whether the current user voted for this answer |

# Poll Endpoints

For creating a poll, see [Create Message](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/create-message). After creation, the poll message cannot be edited.

Apps are not allowed to vote on polls. No rights! :)

## Get Answer Voters % GET /channels/{channel.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/channel-object}/polls/{message.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-object}/answers/{answer_id#DOCS_RESOURCES_POLL/poll-answer-object}

Get a list of users that voted for this specific answer.

###### Query String Params

| Field  | Type      | Description                           | Default |
|--------|-----------|---------------------------------------|---------|
| after? | snowflake | Get users after this user ID          | absent  |
| limit? | integer   | Max number of users to return (1-100) | 25      |

###### Response Body

| Field | Type                                              | Description                     |
|-------|---------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| users | array of [user](#DOCS_RESOURCES_USER/user-object) | Users who voted for this answer |

> ## Expire Poll % POST /channels/{channel.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/channel-object}/polls/{message.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-object}/expire

Reviewer 12: This should mention that you can't expire polls from other users

Reviewer 9: It seems like being able to is intended since the option shows
https://github.com/discord/discord-api-docs/pull/6746#issuecomment-2053493106

Author: It is not intended :(

Reviewer 9: > It is not intended :(

Being able to end a poll started by someone else feels like a useful feature to me

> ## Expire Poll % POST /channels/{channel.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/channel-object}/polls/{message.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-object}/expire
> 
> Immediately expires (i.e. ends) the poll.

Reviewer 8: expire can't be used as an active verb so this wording is weird - I'd call this End Poll (which also matches the UI text)

```suggestion
## End Poll % POST /channels/{channel.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/channel-object}/polls/{message.id#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-object}/expire

Immediately ends the poll, instead of waiting for the configured expiry time.
```
